---
layout: post
title: Linked Lists
---

It's basically a different type of data set. Each peice of information is it's own object. The best analogy of this is a train. You have a train that has a rear end, a middle that has cargo, and a node that hooks to other trains. With a train, you can simply switch it's position by switching the trains and hooking up the nodes with the other trains. With linked lists, you have advantages and disadvantages. The first advantage is the ability to move around objects in a list with maximum efficency. It's as simple as changing the node of objects. In comparison to the array that many people use, it takes only O(1) to move objects around, while the array uses a linear amount, since you have to make a completley new array every time you create changes.But a clear disadvantage is when are search for an certain object, or you want to change the object. The more items you have, the longer it takes to reassign or identify the contents of an object. It is also very simple to delete an item. Because a node is what links the arrays together, you can delete an item by first having the node which is connected to the object you want to delete turned into null. Then, you relink the other objects in the array by assigning the object before the deleted one to the object in front of the deleted one. With an array, it can do it in O(1). How is it possible that it only takes O(1) to add an object in the beginning or the end? It is because the node for the beggining and the end of a linked list is identified as null. To change this node is simple. Comparison to the array, 
